distrib/i386/common/install.md, before:

#	$OpenBSD: install.md,v 1.10 2002/09/17 12:28:54 krw Exp $
#
#
# Copyright (c) 1996 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
# All rights reserved.
#
# This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
# by Jason R. Thorpe.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
# 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
#    must display the following acknowledgement:
#        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
#        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
# 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
# ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
# TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
# LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
# CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
# SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
# INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
# CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
# ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
# POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
#
# machine dependent section of installation/upgrade script.
#

# Machine-dependent install sets
MDSETS=kernel
MDFSTYPE=msdos
MDFSOPTS=-l
MDXAPERTURE=2
ARCH=ARCH

md_set_term() {
	local _tables

	ask "Do you wish to select a keyboard encoding table?" n

	case $resp in
	Y*|y*)	;;
	*)	return
		;;
	esac

	resp=
	while : ; do
		ask "Select your keyboard type: (P)C-AT/XT, (U)SB or 'done'" P
		case $resp in
		P*|p*)  _tables="be de dk es fr it jp lt no pt ru sf sg sv ua uk us"
			;;
		U*|u*)	_tables="de dk es fr it jp no sf sg sv uk us"
			;;
		done)	;;
		*)	echo "'$resp' is not a valid keyboard type."
			resp=
			continue
			;;
		esac
		break;
	done

	[ -z "$_tables" ] && return

	while : ; do
		cat << __EOT
The available keyboard encoding tables are:

	${_tables}

__EOT
		ask "Table name? (or 'done')" us
		case $resp in
		done)	;;
		*)	if kbd $resp ; then
				echo $resp > /tmp/kbdtype
			else
				echo "'${resp}' is not a valid table name."
				continue
			fi
			;;
		esac
		break;
	done
}

md_installboot() {
	echo Installing boot block...
	cp /usr/mdec/boot /mnt/boot
	/usr/mdec/installboot -v /mnt/boot /usr/mdec/biosboot ${1}
	echo "...done."
}

md_checkfordisklabel() {
	# $1 is the disk to check
	local rval

	disklabel -r $1 > /dev/null 2> /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	if grep "no disk label" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=1
	elif grep "disk label corrupted" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=2
	else
		rval=0
	fi

	rm -f /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	return $rval
}

md_prep_fdisk()
{
	local _disk=$1 _whole=$2

	if [ -n "$_whole" ]; then
		echo
		echo Updating MBR based on BIOS geometry.
		fdisk -e ${_disk} << __EOT
reinit
update
write
quit
__EOT

	else
		cat << __EOT

Your will now create a single MBR partition to contain your OpenBSD data. This
partition must have an id of 'A6'; must *NOT* overlap other partitions; and
must be marked as the only active partition.

The 'manual' command describes all the fdisk commands in detail.

$(fdisk ${_disk})
__EOT
		fdisk -e ${_disk}
	fi

	cat << __EOT
Here is the partition information you chose:

$(fdisk ${_disk})

__EOT
}

md_prep_disklabel()
{
	local _disk=$1

	ask "Do you want to use the *entire* disk for OpenBSD?" no
	case $resp in
	y*|Y*)	md_prep_fdisk ${_disk} Y ;;
	*)	md_prep_fdisk ${_disk} ;;
	esac

	cat << __EOT

You will now create an OpenBSD disklabel inside the MBR 'A6' ('OpenBSD')
partition. The disklabel defines how OpenBSD splits up the MBR partition
into OpenBSD partitions in which filesystems and swap space are created. 

The offsets used in the disklabel are ABSOLUTE, i.e. relative to the
start of the disk, NOT the start of the MBR 'A6' partition.

__EOT

	md_checkfordisklabel $_disk
	case $? in
	0)	;;
	1)	echo WARNING: Disk $_disk has no label. You will be creating a new one.
		echo
		;;
	2)	echo WARNING: Label on disk $_disk is corrupted. You will be repairing.
		echo
		;;
	esac

	disklabel -f /tmp/fstab.${_disk} -E ${_disk}
}

md_congrats() {
}

Commit message:

Further reduce i386 install output by sending to /dev/null the fdisk output produced when the user opts to have the install script use the entire disk for OpenBSD.
ok deraadt@.

distrib/i386/common/install.md, after:

#	$OpenBSD: install.md,v 1.11 2002/09/21 21:11:58 krw Exp $
#
#
# Copyright (c) 1996 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
# All rights reserved.
#
# This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
# by Jason R. Thorpe.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
# 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
# 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
# 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
#    must display the following acknowledgement:
#        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
#        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
# 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
# ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
# TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
# LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
# CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
# SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
# INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
# CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
# ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
# POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
#
#
# machine dependent section of installation/upgrade script.
#

# Machine-dependent install sets
MDSETS=kernel
MDFSTYPE=msdos
MDFSOPTS=-l
MDXAPERTURE=2
ARCH=ARCH

md_set_term() {
	local _tables

	ask "Do you wish to select a keyboard encoding table?" n

	case $resp in
	Y*|y*)	;;
	*)	return
		;;
	esac

	resp=
	while : ; do
		ask "Select your keyboard type: (P)C-AT/XT, (U)SB or 'done'" P
		case $resp in
		P*|p*)  _tables="be de dk es fr it jp lt no pt ru sf sg sv ua uk us"
			;;
		U*|u*)	_tables="de dk es fr it jp no sf sg sv uk us"
			;;
		done)	;;
		*)	echo "'$resp' is not a valid keyboard type."
			resp=
			continue
			;;
		esac
		break;
	done

	[ -z "$_tables" ] && return

	while : ; do
		cat << __EOT
The available keyboard encoding tables are:

	${_tables}

__EOT
		ask "Table name? (or 'done')" us
		case $resp in
		done)	;;
		*)	if kbd $resp ; then
				echo $resp > /tmp/kbdtype
			else
				echo "'${resp}' is not a valid table name."
				continue
			fi
			;;
		esac
		break;
	done
}

md_installboot() {
	echo Installing boot block...
	cp /usr/mdec/boot /mnt/boot
	/usr/mdec/installboot -v /mnt/boot /usr/mdec/biosboot ${1}
	echo "...done."
}

md_checkfordisklabel() {
	# $1 is the disk to check
	local rval

	disklabel -r $1 > /dev/null 2> /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	if grep "no disk label" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=1
	elif grep "disk label corrupted" /tmp/checkfordisklabel; then
		rval=2
	else
		rval=0
	fi

	rm -f /tmp/checkfordisklabel
	return $rval
}

md_prep_fdisk()
{
	local _disk=$1 _whole=$2

	if [ -n "$_whole" ]; then
		echo -n "Putting all of $_disk into an active OpenBSD MBR partition..."
		fdisk -e ${_disk} << __EOT > /dev/null
reinit
update
write
quit
__EOT
		echo "done."
		return
	fi

	# Manually configure the MBR.
	cat << __EOT

Your will now create a single MBR partition to contain your OpenBSD data. This
partition must have an id of 'A6'; must *NOT* overlap other partitions; and
must be marked as the only active partition.

The 'manual' command describes all the fdisk commands in detail.

$(fdisk ${_disk})
__EOT
	fdisk -e ${_disk}

	cat << __EOT
Here is the partition information you chose:

$(fdisk ${_disk})
__EOT
}

md_prep_disklabel()
{
	local _disk=$1

	ask "Do you want to use *all* of $_disk for OpenBSD?" no
	case $resp in
	y*|Y*)	md_prep_fdisk ${_disk} Y ;;
	*)	md_prep_fdisk ${_disk} ;;
	esac

	cat << __EOT

You will now create an OpenBSD disklabel inside the OpenBSD MBR
partition. The disklabel defines how OpenBSD splits up the MBR partition
into OpenBSD partitions in which filesystems and swap space are created. 

The offsets used in the disklabel are ABSOLUTE, i.e. relative to the
start of the disk, NOT the start of the MBR 'A6' partition.

__EOT

	md_checkfordisklabel $_disk
	case $? in
	0)	;;
	1)	echo WARNING: Disk $_disk has no label. You will be creating a new one.
		echo
		;;
	2)	echo WARNING: Label on disk $_disk is corrupted. You will be repairing.
		echo
		;;
	esac

	disklabel -f /tmp/fstab.${_disk} -E ${_disk}
}

md_congrats() {
}
